many elements of traditional Japanese
culture such as cuisine and martial arts
are well known throughout the world
kabuki a form of classical theatre
performance may not be as well
understood in the West but has evolved
over 400 years to still maintain
influence and popularity to this day the
word kabuki is derived from the Japanese
verb kabuki meaning out of the ordinary
or bizarre its history began in early
17th century Kyoto where a shrine maiden
named Izumo no Kuni would use the city's
dry kamo river bed as a stage to perform
unusual dances for passerby who found
her daring parodies of Buddhist prayers
both entertaining and mesmerizing soon
other troops began performing in the
same style and kabuki made history as
Japan's first dramatic performance form
catering to the common people by relying
on makeup or Kesho and facial
expressions instead of masks and
focusing on historical events and
everyday life rather than folk tales
kabuki set itself apart from the
upper-class dance theater form known as
known and provided a unique commentary
on society during the Edo period at
first
the dance was practiced only by females
and commonly referred to as kana kabuki
it soon evolved to an ensemble
performance and became a regular
attraction at tea houses drawing
audiences from all social classes at
this point onna kabuki was often risque
as geishas performed not only to show
off their singing and dancing abilities
but also to advertise their bodies to
potential clients a band by the
conservative Tokugawa Shogunate in 1629
led to the emergence of waka Shu kabuki
with young boys as actors but when this
was also banned for similar reasons
there was a transition to yaro kabuki
performed by men necessitating elaborate
costumes and makeup for those playing
female roles or onna gotta attempts by
the government to control kabuki didn't
end with bans on the gender or age of
performers the Tokugawa military group
or bakufu was fueled by Confucian ideals
and often enacted sanctions on costume
fabrics stage weaponry and the subject
matter of the plot
at the same time kabuki became closely
associated with and influenced by
Bunraku an elaborate form of puppet
theater
due to these influences the once
spontaneous one-act dance evolved into a
structured five act play often based on
the tenets of Confucian philosophy
before 1868 when the Tokugawa Shogunate
fell and Emperor Meiji was restored to
power Japan had practiced isolation from
other countries or sakoku and thus the
development of Kabuki had mostly been
shaped by domestic influences but even
before this period European artists such
as Claude Monet had become interested in
and inspired by Japanese art such as
woodblock prints as well as live
performance after 1868 others such as
Vincent van Gogh and composer Claude
Debussy began to incorporate kabuki
influences in their work while kabuki
itself underwent much change and
experimentation to adapt to the new
modern era like other traditional art
forms kabuki suffered in popularity in
the wake of World War two but innovation
by artists such as director tetsuji
takechi led to a resurgence shortly
after indeed kabuki was even considered
a popular form of entertainment amongst
American troops stationed in Japan
despite initial u.s. censorship of
Japanese traditions today kabuki still
lives on as an integral part of Japan's
rich cultural heritage extending its
influence beyond the stage to television
film and anime the artform pioneered by
okuni continues to delight audiences
with the actor's elaborate makeup
extravagant and delicately embroidered
costumes and the unmistakable melodrama
of the stories told on stage
you